# final-project-van : CS 108 Gender Bias Project
final-project-van created by GitHub Classroom
Team members: Anushka Pandya, Neha Mathews, Vishal Gondi

The project goal was to analyze the disparity in pay between males and females by using different datasets and examining whether there is bias present or not within the data. After cleaning the data, we will build a predictive models using linear regression and KNN based on the data and used Aequitas toolkit to examine bias in the datasets. We also analyzed the fairness in both datasets. Our first dataset is called "PanelStudyIncomeDynamics_cleaned.csv". We primarily focused on the variables sex, age, and experience. We found that in this dataset sex had a good amount of importance in the linear regression model. This gave reason to believe that there could be a possibility of gender bias present in the dataset. The second dataset is called "GenderPayGap2.csv". In this dataset we focused on gender, age, and seniority. Gender did not have that high of an importance in the linear regression model. This gave reason to believe that gender bias may not be prevalent in this dataset. What we found is that while there is bias present in sex in terms of income, bias is more prevalent in age, experience and seniority. In the first dataset, we also found that age and experience is generally fair, while sex is unfair. In the second dataset, gender, age, and seniority all are generally unfair. 
 

Dr. Salloum looked over our project and told us to consider removing age and gender from the trained model and reintroduce it later as individual records. At this time she said it was okay that we kept our project as is but told us to keep this in mind for the future.
